Add Snowflake integration docs (#12816)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/database-access/guides/snowflake.mdx

---
title: Database Access with Snowflake
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Snowflake.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="9.0"
>
  Database access for Snowflake is available starting from Teleport `10.0`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.

> - Add Teleport's public key to a Snowflake's user.

Author: Not in this case. Snowflake works differently. You need add Teleport's public key to each created user created in Snowflake. https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth.html#step-4-assign-the-public-key-to-a-snowflake-user

  $ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
  --name=example-Snowflake \
  --protocol=Snowflake \
  --uri=https://abc123.us-east-2.aws.snowflakecomputing.com \
  --labels=env=dev
  ```

  <Admonition type="note">

    The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's Proxy Service
    endpoint because the Database Service always connects back to the cluster over a
    reverse tunnel.

  </Admonition>

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the
  address of your Teleport Cloud tenant:

  ```code
  $ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh \
  --name=example-Snowflake \
  --protocol=Snowflake \
  --uri=Snowflakes://Snowflake.example.com:6379 \
  --labels=env=dev
  ```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See the [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx) for details.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 3/5. Export public key

> Use the `tctl auth sign` command below to export the public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `tctl auth sign` command below to export a public key for your Snowflake user:
```

> Use the `tctl auth sign` command below to export the public key.

Author: Added

```code
$ tctl auth sign --format=snowflake --out=server
```

The command will create `server.pub` file with Teleport's public key.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/rotation-note.mdx!)

## Step 4/5. Add generated key to Snowflake's user

Use the generated public key to enable Key Pair Authentication.

Login to your Snowflake instance and execute the below SQL statement:

```sql
alter user alice set rsa_public_key='MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAv3dHYw4LJCcZzdbhb3hV
...
LwIDAQAB';
```

> where `alice` is the name of the Snowflake user and the `rsa_public_key` is the key generated earlier without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this statement, `alice` is the name of the Snowflake user and the `rsa_public_key` is the key generated earlier without
```

the PEM header/footer (first and the last line).

> You can use `describe user` command to verify the user's public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `describe user` command to verify the user's public key:
```

```sql
desc user alice;
```

> See [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth.html#step-4-assign-the-public-key-to-a-snowflake-user)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth.html#step-4-assign-the-public-key-to-a-snowflake-user)
```

for more details.

## Step 5/5. Connect

> Log into your Teleport cluster and see available databases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to your Teleport cluster and see the available databases:
```

---
title: Database Access with Snowflake
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Snowflake.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}

>   min="9.0"

Author: Fixed

  --labels=env=dev
  ```

  <Admonition type="note">

    The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's Proxy Service
    endpoint because the Database Service always connects back to the cluster over a
    reverse tunnel.

  </Admonition>

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the
  address of your Teleport Cloud tenant:

  ```code
  $ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
  --name=example-snowflake \
  --protocol=Snowflake \
  --uri=Snowflakes://Snowflake.example.com:6379 \
  --labels=env=dev
  ```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See the [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx) for details.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 3/5. Export a public key

Use the `tctl auth sign` command below to export a public key for your Snowflake user:

```code
$ tctl auth sign --format=snowflake --out=server
```

> The command will create `server.pub` file with Teleport's public key. Teleport will use the corresponding private key to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command will create a `server.pub` file with Teleport's public key. Teleport will use the corresponding private key to
```

> generate JWT (JSON Web Token) which will be used to authenticate in Snowflake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate a JWT (JSON Web Token) that will be used to authenticate to Snowflake.
```
